Good afternoon.
My name is Kevin Van Vechten.
I'm an open source software
engineer with Apple.
I'll be talking today
about the core of Mac OS X,
which is known as Darwin.
It's a BSD layer, traditional Unix style.
It's open source,
and today I'll be talking a bit
about where you can find the sources,
how you can download them,
and build them on your own system
to make your own customization.
So first I'd like to talk a little
bit about what's new at Apple.
Last year, since WWDC,
we've announced the
APSL version 2 license.
The majority of the code that
Apple develops is released under
the Apple Public Source License,
known as the APSL, which was already an
OSI-approved license,
Open Source Initiative.
Now it's also a
Free Software Foundation free
software license.
So it's not GPL compatible,
but it is recognized as a free
software license by the FSA.
Also, we've unified the Apple IDs with
our APSL registration,
so the same Apple ID that you
use at your Mac.com account
for your iTunes Music Store,
for Apple Developer Connection,
can now be used to agree to the
license to download these sources.
And also, we had our Darwin 701 release,
which corresponded to
Mac OS 10.3 Panther.
So at Apple we have several
open source projects.
We have Darwin,
we have Darwin streaming server,
Rendezvous, HeaderDoc, the list goes on.
Some really great technology that
we have available that you should
check out on our open source site.
And the site that you should check
it out at is development.com/darwin,
the one listed up top.
I'd also really like to strongly
recommend subscribing to some of
the mailing lists at list.apple.com.
These are lists where members of
the community who are interested
in open source can discuss
various issues they're having.
And there are also a lot of engineers
at Apple who participate on these lists,
who give responses to bug reports
or general technical questions.
Additionally,
I'd like to point out opendarwin.org.
Opendarwin.org is a mirror
of the Open Darwin website.
It's a very useful tool.
It's a very useful tool to help you
get the resources available at Apple,
and also hosts various other open source
projects that are related to Mac OS X,
such as Darwin ports.
There's also close collaboration
with the Fink project,
both of which the URLs are listed here.
And those two projects bring a
large number of third party open
source applications to Mac OS X.
So what you'll learn in
this session is what's in
Darwin and where you can get it,
how to build most of the
projects that are in Darwin.
They tend to follow a common format.
And we'll go over the best practices
for building these sources.
And also how you can use these
projects on a Mac OS X system.
And specifically,
I'll be talking about what
things are generally safe
to replace on Mac OS X with
your own customized versions,
and what things you should
probably avoid replacing even
though they're open source.
And finally, I'll go over a brief outline
of how you can make a bootable
CD that has Darwin on it,
which might be useful for
an open source project,
might also be useful to come up
with some sort of Unix recovery
CD for your own development purposes.
So Darwin is the open
source core of Mac OS X.
At the lowest level, it's the kernel.
On top of that is
I/O Kit libraries and families,
I/O Kit drivers, and finally,
it's the BSD commands and libraries,
anything that you have access
to from terminal.app or Xterm.
And Darwin can be very
helpful to you as a developer.
It's a place to look for
reference sample code.
So for example,
a lot of the new work you've been
hearing about in the past couple
days has had to do with the new
kernel programming interfaces and
finer grained locking in the kernel.
You can check out the sources
to see either the MS-DOS FS or
WebDAV FS as an example of
these new locks in use in Tiger.
And those sources are on the website.
You can also use these sources
to debug your projects.
Perhaps it would be helpful if you
added a K print into the kernel at
a certain step because the driver
you're riding is having issues.
It really lets you debug from the
inside and see both sides of the picture
when you're debugging your programs.
You can customize your system.
Perhaps there's a feature
that Apple doesn't provide,
but there's a patch against
Perl or against Python or any
other open source component.
It's possible for you
to download the sources,
apply the patch,
and then get that feature on Mac OS X.
And of course, there are also a lot of
research opportunities,
whether you're interested in
machine virtualization or whatever.
There's the ability to tinker with
the underpinnings of the operating
system and try new things out.
So I'll go over a brief
history of Darwin.
Darwin was first released as a
bunch of images of the sources of
portions of Mac OS X Server 1.0,
and that was over five years ago.
Since then, we've had a Darwin release
that corresponds with each
major Mac OS X release.
You can notice about
halfway down the list,
there was a break in the numbering
from Darwin 1 series to Darwin 5,
6, and 7.
We have the Darwin versions
match the major number in
the build number of Mac OS X,
so there's some consistency now.
You can see, you know,
Mac OS 10.1 had a build
number that started with a 5,
and Darwin 5.1 was released.
Panther had a build number
that started with a 7,
and that's also Darwin 7.
So you can generally match
things up using the build
number and the Darwin number.
So you can get Darwin from
the open source website.
The main link for a lot of text on
Darwin is developer.apple.com/darwin,
which I mentioned earlier.
But the actual sources live on the
www.opensource.apple.com server.
They're also mirrored at
darwinsource.opendarwin.org.
We organize the sources
by Mac OS X release.
So for each release,
there's a page that has a list
of all the open source projects.
There's the name of the project,
the license that it's covered under,
whether it's the Apple public
source license or another license.
And then there's also a tar archive
that you can download of those sources.
So there's also a neat trick
for getting all of the sources.
If you want to grab them all at once,
you can go to the OpenDarwin site,
and they offer anonymous rsync
access on the Darwin source files.
So this is an example command up here,
where it's grabbing all of the sources
that correspond to Mac OS X 10.3.4.
You could change the version
number to a different version
and grab those sources instead,
and the details are available
on the OpenDarwin site.
So now I'm going to talk about building
the projects that are in Darwin.
At Apple,
we have a proprietary build system,
the 10 build system,
and it's fairly heavyweight,
and deals with a lot of issues
related to building Mac OS X.
And a lot of the projects that
are in Darwin are customized to
be built with this build system.
Unfortunately,
it's not practical to have this
available outside of Apple,
and so what we'll be talking about
is some of the expectations that
these projects might have that
the 10 build system provides,
and how you can set up your environment
to build projects in the same manner.
So before you start,
it's important to realize that
there are a lot of variables
involved in building software.
There's the compiler
tool version you have.
We have GCC 295, GCC 3.1, 3.3,
and now 3.5 with Tiger.
So it's important to build sources
with the correct set of compiler tools.
Generally speaking,
the version of the compiler that was
used to build a given Mac OS X release
is the same GCC compiler that
was shipped on that X release.
So for anything in the
Panther series of software updates,
you'll want to use the GCC compiler
that came on the developer
tools accompanying Mac OS 10.3.
It's also important to realize that the
environment variables in your shell have
a large impact on how things get built.
There are variables like
the C flags or LD flags,
which pass extra arguments to
the compiler or to the linker.
So if you don't want them to be set,
be sure to unset any unnecessary
variables before building,
because it can change
the results of the build.
It's also equally important to set
the correct environment variables
that the projects might be expecting,
and I'll talk about those in a minute.
The libraries and headers that
you have installed on your
system are also important.
That's what the projects
are going to link against.
And so it's always important to
keep in mind what versions you
have installed on your system.
And when you're building these projects,
they will use them.
And they will use those versions.
So if you are anticipating deploying
the project to a different machine,
you probably want to build
on something like 10.3 base,
and it would have the most compatibility
over all the extra software updates.
If you build on something later,
like 10.3.3 or 10.3.4,
it might pick up some changes that
may or may not be backward compatible.
So it's, generally speaking,
easier to be forward compatible
than backward compatible.
Another issue is, for example,
the file systems.
With 10.2, I believe it was,
dev random was introduced.
Well, if you're targeting a piece
of software prior to 10.2,
dev random is going to be there,
and there's not much you can do about it.
Likewise,
if you're building software for 10.2,
and you're on 10.1,
dev random's not going to be there.
So if you have an autoconfigure
script that's automatically detecting
what features are available,
it's not going to know that your
system you're targeting should
or shouldn't have dev random if
the system you're on differs.
So again,
it's just really important to be building
on the same style of system as you
want to ultimately use the project on.
So the overall requirements for
building software are generally more
RAM is better and more disk is better.
Obviously you can build sources
with less than these requirements,
but generally speaking,
having about 300 megabytes of
RAM will keep you from swapping a
lot as you're doing large builds.
And if you intend to build a lot
of projects that are in Darwin,
I recommend at least two
gigabytes of space to work with.
A lot of the intermediate files during
building can take up a lot of space.
And it's always unfortunate
to see a very long compile die
because you ran out of space.
On Mac OS X, while you're building,
it's important to have the
developer tools installed.
Obviously, you'll need those to have
the compiler on the system.
But it's also important to have the
BSD SDK and the X11 SDK installed.
I think I skipped an item.
The BSD package on the CDs,
I believe it's defaulted
to install these days.
But in the past,
it may have been an optional install.
So make sure you have all of
your BSD command line tools,
because a lot of the sources
require those to build properly.
So another important issue is
many of the sources may rely on
a case-sensitive file system.
For example,
the CVS project uses lowercase
CVS to denote the executable
and a lot of the sources.
But it also is checked into CVS,
and so there are uppercase
CVS directories on the file system.
Because of this,
it's recommended to do all of your
building on a case-sensitive file system,
whether that's UFS or HFSX.
And I find that disk images
work particularly well for
doing this on Mac OS X.
On Darwin, unfortunately,
disk images aren't available,
so it will be necessary to
use a separate partition.
Shown here is an example
command to HDIutil,
which will create a 4
gigabyte HFSX volume.
So that has all the speed and
journaling advantages of HFS,
but it's also case sensitive by default,
and allows you to build
something like the CVS project.
Next I'll talk about
the shell environment.
Many of the make files that are
used by these sources expect certain
environment variables to be set.
Apple's build system sets four very
critical environment variables,
and these are the source root,
the object root, the symbol root,
and the destination root.
The source root is simply the
absolute path to where the
sources are that you are building.
The object root is a path to what
should start out as an empty directory,
and that is where all the
intermediate .o files and other
miscellaneous intermediate files
will be stored during build.
And it's possible to just delete that
directory after a build succeeded.
The symbol root is where debugging
versions of any executables,
libraries,
or drivers you build will be placed.
And those versions have all
of the symbols in them before
the symbols get stripped out.
And finally, the destination root is
the final packaged bits.
It's possible to take a destination root,
package it up with a tar archive
or something of that nature,
and then install it on the system
that you want to run the software on.
It's important to create all these
directories before you begin building,
since some of the make
files won't create them,
and then the building might fail
because the directory is missing.
It's also important to avoid
spaces in the path names
leading up to these directories.
If you have spaces and there's a
bug in a make file and it decides it
wants to wipe out the object root,
well, you might have some
unfortunate consequences.
So really be careful and don't
use spaces in these path names.
Finally, it's important to change each of
these to root wheel ownership.
That way you get the proper inheritance
of the root wheel user ID and
group ID in the destination root.
Many of the projects only
change the root wheel.
It's important to change the root wheel.
It's important to change explicitly
the ownership of files that
it expects to be different,
and so it relies on this
default while you're building.
So when building projects,
many of the projects have a make file.
And if there's a make file,
you should default to
using GNU make to project,
as that's what Apple does.
If there is a PB proj or an Xcode file,
then you'll need to use Xcode build,
which is a command line tool
that can build the project.
It's important to always build as root.
As I indicated,
some make files will change the
ownership or the permissions of a file.
And the only way to change ownership,
at least now before there are ACLs,
is if you have root privileges.
So always be root when you invoke
GNU make or when you invoke Xcode build.
And there are two main targets
for each of these projects.
There's an install headers phase.
And the install headers phase
installs only the header files.
So if you have a big library
or an I/O Kit family,
and you're missing the
headers on your system,
you don't need to build the
entire library to get the headers.
It's possible to shortcut to
just do the install headers.
That'll give you the headers
you need for that library.
And then you can move on to the
next project that you want to
build that requires those headers.
On the other hand, if you use target,
it will build the entire
binary or library,
et cetera.
And that is the complete
package of man pages,
headers, and binaries.
For example, here's the basic environment
for the ccTools project.
Now, in Mac OS X 3.4,
ccTools is version 495.8.
And we'd find that just by
going to the Darwin site.
So now we can create directories as
each of these variables point to.
And the sources to cctools4958 should
be in that path that's specified.
There are more environment
variables that you should set.
There's a project name, which is cctools.
There's the project's source version,
which is 4.95.8.
There's the build version,
which is simply the number of
attempts you've made to build
this particular software.
This is our first attempt,
so it's build version .
The architectures are what architectures
you're planning to build for.
For Mac OS X, that's obviously PowerPC.
Darwin actually supports both 386
architecture and architecture,
so you might add in that
flag if you want to.
The operating system flag for
environment variables is always Mac OS.
The release should be whatever
release you're building for.
So since this is CC Tools from 10.3.4,
you'll want to specify
a release of Panther.
For path releases, 10.0 is Cheetah,
10.1 was Puma, 10.2 was Jaguar,
10.3 is Panther, and 10.4 will be Tiger.
The Mac OS X deployment target will
affect how header files are interpreted,
and it should be set to the version
number of what you're targeting.
It shouldn't include a
software update version.
I believe it should just
include the major version,
so 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, or 10.4.
For Darwin, as I mentioned,
there are a couple of variations.
You may want to include the i386
architecture while building.
You may want to include extra C flags.
For example,
Darwin does not have the C preprocessor,
so we're specifying -node-cpp-precomp.
So the CppPrecompiler doesn't get run.
And also,
the release is not Panther or Tiger,
but the release is simply
Darwin when building Darwin sources.
So, to actually build CC tools,
we set the environment variables,
and also pass all of those same variables
as additional arguments to the make
command when we're building the sources.
It's also very useful to redirect
all the output to a log file.
Many of these projects have a lot
of output while they're building,
and if something goes wrong,
your scroll back history
might not cover it.
If it's in a file,
you can go back and see where
things actually started to go wrong.
So, in this example here, doing C2-S,
which makes everything run as root.
Again, that's very important
for building the sources.
We're doing a make install of CC tools,
PowerPC architecture.
I show the source root and
the additional variables we
went over omitted for brevity.
The bottom left-hand corner,
I'm redirecting standard
error to standard out.
So, both standard error and standard
out will get captured in the same.
And then I'm storing it in a
log file that you can see there.
So I'm going to do a little demo now
of going over the steps of building
CC tools that we've just discussed.
So here I have the command for HDIutil.
We'll create-- I guess for speed,
we probably don't need
a full two gigabytes.
So we'll create a disk image quickly,
and this is where we'll
be doing our building.
This is an HFSx disk image,
so it has case sensitivity.
So I've chosen a name of
build root for this example.
And I'll change into
the build root volume.
Now I've already downloaded
the CC tool spaces.
So what I'm going to do is extract them.
All the sources we publish on the site
already have a directory name of the
project name dash project version,
so that's already set up.
You can just extract it to wherever
you want to build the sources,
and you're ready to go.
So I already have a little script
here that sets up the appropriate
environment variables for source root,
object root, symbol root, and dest root.
It creates the directories to make sure
they exist before the building begins.
to wheel for each of those
all the environment variables
that were discussed.
into the directory where the sources are.
We make install,
because we want to build the whole thing.
And again, all the variables that we
had set in the environment,
we also want to pass as
additional arguments to make.
So now we are running as root,
and I'll do --x,
which basically tells the
bash shell to echo each of the
commands that it's running,
so we can see step by step
as we run through the .
I'm going to be working on
this for a little while.
So now is the time to
talk about dependencies.
Come back to the build,
it will and there will be an error
that streams.h was not present.
Basically what happens is there's
a lot of that aren't shipped
on Mac OS X because they're
not needed for day-to-day use.
But they are available for
the open source website.
So right now,
it's not easy to determine where the
streams.h file may have come from.
We're working on some that can help
track that type of information down.
We're searching through
the Darwin source.
So the next step would be to
go to the open source site,
[Transcript missing]
Once we have that,
we can take the build result, which has,
we'll call it a root,
that contains all of the build results
of the Libstream's install headers,
and we can copy that to the base system.
On Mac OS X,
the ditto command is very useful for
copying one directory to another,
so you can just ditto from the
directory that contains the
Libstream's headers to slash,
and that'll copy everything
to the correct place.
If you run it as root,
it will also reserve
all of the permissions.
So, you always make backups.
Obviously, if you're going to be copying
files over your base system,
something can go wrong at times,
either if you don't have a build
of something you expected you did,
or versions don't match up.
So, it's important to have good backups
when you're building these builds.
On Darwin, Ditto is not available,
but either the GNU/TAR or the
Pax command can be used to
copy the sources to the root.
So, I have a couple example usages of
both Ditto and of Pax shown here.
We're going to go back to the demo
to resolve that streams.h problem.
So we can see here that
streams.h was not found,
and we have an install error.
I also have already downloaded
Libstreams project.
So I'll extract the resources now.
script set up to compile.
We're doing the same steps,
setting the source root, the object root,
the symbol root, destination root.
We're creating the
directories in case they don't
We're changing the
ownership to root wheel.
We export the project name, version,
and the different build
Not only do we export
them in the environment,
but also pass them to the Make file.
Though, in this case,
instead of Make Install,
it's Make Install Headers.
We just cut the header.
So installing the headers
is actually very fast.
You just need to copy a few
files into the destination route.
And if we look at the
directories we have here,
If I find all the files
that are in the libstreams,
we can see the libstreams,
and then user local includes
streams.h and streamsextra.h.
So this is what you might expect
into the base system to satisfy that
missing dependency on streams.h.
And we'll use the ditto command.
[Transcript missing]
We can see it go a little farther.
is a lot of times when we do a build,
the object root has results.
The next thing is one of my best
practices that I didn't follow.
It's a good idea to clear out the
object root and the symbol root.
from there.
We'll get everything from there.
This time, hopefully,
it'll get a little further because we
[Transcript missing]
So again, be careful.
Always back if you're changing
anything on your base system.
It's also important not to
overwrite the core foundation
The Core Foundation is an example of
something that doesn't quite match
up between Darwin and Mac OS X.
It's a lot of extra functionality in
Mac OS X that's not present on Darwin.
So if you were to replace
it on your Mac OS X system,
things would fail to work.
In general, the BSD commands and the
BSD libraries are safe to replace.
So those you don't need
to worry about too much.
But XNU,
it's also generally safe to replace.
But since it is the kernel,
any mistake will leave
the machine unbooted.
It's always good to have a or a CD or
something you can boot from again to
restore your backup of the kernel.
I/O Kit drivers and families
have those same set of concerns.
Basically,
it's the base of the system that decides
where the system will boot or not boot.
You really have to have a backup.
If you have an extra partition
that has a full system on it,
of course, when you're booting,
you can use the Option key to select
which partition you want to boot from.
So if something goes wrong
on your building partition,
you can use the Option key to go
back to your backup partition,
boot from that,
and then correct any problems
that you may have had.
Generally, for troubleshooting, remember,
it's important to build this root.
Things won't fail out,
but the risk to change
ownership might fail silently.
And so the build results you get won't
be exactly what you were expecting.
As we saw, a lot of times it's necessary
to clear out the optimal route,
and even the desperate route,
after each attempt to build the software.
If there are intermediate
results in there,
sometimes the Makefiles aren't
as robust as they could be,
and they will go any further,
because they were tricked
by a file that's in there.
So clearing those out
gives you a fresh start,
and it usually makes things succeed.
If there's a header file missing,
you can use the install headers
phase to shortcut a build.
And of course,
if you have specific questions,
don't hesitate to ask a mailing list.
The darwindevelopmentlist@list.apple.com
is a good general starting
point for Darwin questions,
and there are more specific
lists for kernel technologies
or other areas of Darwin.
And also at Darwin.org,
hackers@darwin.org list,
where people who are involved in
the Darwin source code discuss .
Next I'll talk about a little
bit more advanced topic,
building in a changed root.
A changed root is when you use
the change root BSD command.
There's a good man page
available on it that describes
a little bit about what it does.
And what essentially this does
is it changes the root directory,
slap, to be a different
subdirectory on your disk.
And the advantage to doing this
is it's now possible to install
headers and install libraries,
compilers,
whatever you need in a different
environment than your host system.
So if something goes wrong in there,
it's less likely to affect the
partition that you're booting off of.
And it's also possible to, or more easy,
targeting a system that's different
than what you're running on.
For example,
if you're running on 10.3.3 or 10.3.4,
because that's what's newest
you want running on it,
you'll want things to work on 10.3.
And building up a changed root with
the 10.3 stuff will solve the problem.
The problem of picking up libraries
and headers might not have been
present at that time because you're
in a more self-contained environment.
A couple of things to note though
is that this doesn't change IPC.
So it's still important that
you use the same major version.
Although it's easy to do a change
route to build 10.3 sources on
a system that's actually 10.3.4,
things inside the change route
will communicate with the
various daemons on the system,
like lookupd.
So if there's been any protocol change,
the change route doesn't reflect that,
and things either might fail to
work or get unexpected results.
So here I have an example script.
Again, you have to be root user to
the root of the file system.
And when you change the
root to the file system,
some things will be missing, like devfs.
And a lot of software
needs that to compile.
So here I have an example of creating
the dev directory in the root
that we're going to change into,
mounting the devfs file
system on that dev directory,
mounting the file descriptor file system
on top of that dev directory as well.
So that gives you things like /dev/null,
devrandom,
the various file descriptors that
are accessible from the shell.
And it's important to mount these file
systems outside of the change root.
If you mount them inside
of the change root,
then it might not be possible to unmount
these file systems until you restart.
However, if you mount them before
changing into the root,
then it's possible to unmount them again.
So here we changed the root
once this has been done.
And that will drop us into the default
shell inside that root directory.
I'm going to talk a bit
about the Darwin build tools.
The Darwin build tools are scripts
that I've developed recently
that help to automate some of
these tasks I've just discussed.
So as you might imagine,
it would be fairly obvious if you had
to type in all of the text each time to
set all the environment variables and
pass all those same arguments to make.
And these scripts automate
some of those processes.
The Darwin build tools
are two main components.
There's the Darwin cross-reference tool,
which is called Darwin XRef.
And what this can do is download
a property list from the
OpenDarwin site or Apple site,
and these property lists will
be hopefully available soon.
There's an example one that is available
already with the tools for 10.3.4.
And these property lists allow
you to look up what the particular
source version is for any project
that's in Darwin that corresponds to,
say, Mac OS 10.3.4, for example.
You can also list what
projects that depends on.
So in order to build CC tools,
we saw that we need to first
have the headers of libstreams,
and that information is
reflected in the Darwin XRef.
So the Darwin XRef tool
is a very generic tool,
and it's possible to ask that tool for
a list of those types of dependencies.
And then another function that
the Darwin XRef tool has is the
ability to cross-reference which
files are installed on disk with
which project they came from.
So for example,
if we see that streams.h is missing,
We can run a little query
on the Darwin XRef tool,
and it will report back that libstreams
is the project that that came from.
And again, over time,
this information will be
available for the Darwin projects.
The Darwin build script is a script
that actually sets up the environment.
It uses the Darwin XRef tool extensively
to get the correct source versions.
sets up the environment for building.
It also does a little bit of automatic
fetching of the dependencies.
So if you don't have libstreams already,
it'll go look on the OpenDarwin
site and try to download it,
for example.
And it also helps automate
change-routed building,
so it will create a directory.
It'll load up all the routes that
are needed to change into there,
change the route, perform the building in
that isolated environment,
and then the building succeeds
to copy those files out of that
isolated environment into a place
that's ready for you to use.
So here's some example usages
of the Darwin XRef tool.
And again, these tools are available at
darwinsource.opendarwin.org.
Up top we have Darwin XRef
and we load the index.
So we're taking build 7H63 was Mac OS X.
It's a plist we downloaded
from the website.
We load it into the Darwin XRef tool.
Then we can do queries.
The first example is asking what version
of the born shell was included in X.
And it says that was source version 29.
Next we can ask it to
find file streams.h.
And it notes that libstreams project
installs a file that's in user
local include streams streams.h.
And finally we can ask it what are the
runtime dependencies for the born shell.
And it knows that the
born shell requires libm,
libsystem, cctools,
and the library in order to run.
And there are other dependencies
which I don't have listed here.
The Darwin build script, as I mentioned,
will download sources from
the Darwin source website.
So it automates that step for you.
However, if you already have them
on your local system,
it'll use those.
Or if you're modifying the sources,
it checks the local system first.
That's where you can put your
modified version and have it build.
up the proper shell environment.
It saves roots and the symbols
from a successful build in a
directory hierarchy that's well
organized and ready to be used.
And it also installs any dependencies
into a root before changing
into it to perform the building.
So a couple examples here,
we can install the header files that are
associated with the kernel by issuing the
command darwin build dash headers XNU.
To do the example we just went over,
we could have done darwin
build dash headers libc.
And another example is building
the standard C library,
libc, in a change root,
and that's as simple as doing
darwin build dash change root libc.
So now I'm going to demo
those Darwin build tools.
Thank you.
So we already have our
build root directory.
I'll get rid of that echo.
So we already have our
build root disk image,
but we don't need any of the
stuff that's already on it.
So I'm just going to wipe it away.
So what I'm going to do now is
install the Darwin build tools.
So these are available on that
darwinsource.opendarwin.org site.
And there's a README that is on the site
and also included in the TAR archive
that explains how to set this up,
including creating the disk
image and doing the installation.
But I'm going to install this
onto that build root image.
And here it creates some directories.
It creates sources, objects, symbols,
headers, and roots, and logs.
These are where the various results
of your building will be stored.
So after sources are fetched
from the open Darwin site,
they'll be stored in
the sources directory.
After the build has finished,
the symbols go in the symbols directory.
The headers go in the headers directory.
The roots go in the roots directory.
and the log of the build is
stored in the logs directory.
The first thing we need to do is look
up the Darwin cross-reference tool.
So I'll load that up with the sample
property list that's included.
And you can see there are 313
projects listed in this property list.
So as the example I gave,
we can ask for what the version of Bash,
and it was Bash 29,
that's in the current system's build.
If you have other plists that
are of different build numbers,
it's possible to add extra arguments
to the Darwin cross-reference tool
and have it consult one of those other
builds that might be different from
the system that you're already on.
So here,
we may want to build all of-- well,
let's just do Bash, for example.
You can see it's fetching the sources.
It attempted to download them.
It succeeded.
And it's going through and
doing all the compiling.
It prints out some information
about the local computer,
such as what version of GCC is installed,
what version of the
installer is installed.
It also tells you what values it used to
set up the shell environment variables,
what all the environment variables that
were currently set on the system are.
What command it used to do the build,
and then it goes into a log.
Here's configure,
and now it's actually going ahead
and building some of these sources.
So I'll kill the building there for time.
But we can look in the logs.
And sure enough, we have a log.
This is the Bash project,
source version 29, attempt number one.
All of that output that
I was just showing you has
been saved into a log file.
So you can go back and
review that at a later time.
Now I'll give an example of
the change-rooted building.
It has the ability to download
some of these pre-built
routes from opendarwin.org,
but in the interest of time,
I already have them on the local disk,
and I'll just copy them over from there.
So this is a collection
of pre-built projects.
Now,
the environment that's used to build is
all stored in this Darwin build ENV file.
And again, all these details are
available in the documentation
associated with these tools.
But since we'll be
building a Darwin project,
let's say for fun,
that I want to enable the 386
variants of the architecture.
So here what I've done is I've
changed around the variables so
that not just PowerPC is specified,
but also 386 is specified.
And I can do a Darwin build.
Now, by default, Mac OS X does not ship
a 386-labeled compiler,
but it is part of Darwin.
So to prove that we're
changing the route here,
I'm going to compile Bash,
as we saw for 386 and PowerPC in
this change-route environment.
So what it's doing right now
is installing those routes,
which can be downloaded from Open Darwin,
or as we see here,
they're already cached on the system.
And it's copying all of those
into the build root directory.
So first it installs all the libraries
and binaries that the-- oops.
Maybe I can give a different example.
So as we can see here, at least, though,
the PowerPC and i386
architectures were specified.
It did compile those architectures
in the change root environment.
Apparently,
I still need to work a little bit
more on specifying the dependencies
in the property list file.
But if we look in the
build root directory,
you can see it's a mini version of
the redirect that you might expect
with directories like bin and sbin,
user, applications, developer, et cetera.
And also, as I mentioned with mounting
the developer file system,
devfs is, or the device file system,
sorry,
devfs is in that change root environment.
Amen.
So that's the demo I have
of the Darwin build tools.
I'll be going back to the slides.
I'm now talking about
creating a bootable CD.
So it's possible to collect
the Darwin projects,
install them onto a disk image,
and then burn the disk image and
boot your computer from that.
For the sake of simplicity,
I'll be talking about using the
HDI utilities to burn the CD,
which can only be done on Mac OS X.
There are steps for doing this on Darwin,
which you'll be able to find
on the Open Darwin site.
The first step is to create a
CD image using the HDI utility,
and that shows up as
an icon on the finder.
Then you want to copy over
the various projects that are
needed to boot the computer.
Few finishing touches
that need to be done,
which I'll go over,
include choosing a BLEST directory,
which helps the open firmware on
the computer boot from the CD,
as well as creating the text cache,
which all of the
dependencies of the kernel .
And finally, you'll burn the CD image.
So the first step in creating a
bootable CD is to use HDIutil.
In this example,
I'm creating a 650 megabyte
disk image on an HFS partition.
I've given it a volume name of Darwin.
And this will do the normal
process of creating a disk image.
And then we can attach it.
And that's when the icon
will show up on the desktop,
and you can change into the
directory from terminal.app,
et cetera.
It's important to set the ownership
of this new volume to root wheel.
Again, if we're going to be copying
a bunch of files into it,
you want the right default permissions.
So start off with root wheel,
and do all the copying as root,
so that all the ownership
can be transferred.
You can use the ditto command
to do the actual copying.
It's important to copy
the files project first.
That project is what has the directory
hierarchy of a Mac OS X system.
It's what creates the user directory,
or the bin directory,
or the applications directory.
And so it's a good base to lay down.
And then all the other projects
will start filling in those
directories with their executables
and with their libraries.
It's important to copy the kernel, bootX,
which is the bootloader,
libm is the standard math library,
libsystem, cctools,
which includes the dynamic linker,
startup, the ncurses library, bash,
so you have a shell once you've booted,
various file commands such as cp, rm,
the ones that you're used to,
shell commands, and the list goes on.
This will change for release to
release as things move around.
We'll try to keep some information
about it on the OpenDarwin site,
but these are really the core
projects that for any release you
absolutely need to have on the CD.
Again, there are others that you probably
need to have or will want to have
on your CD to make it more useful.
So the next step is
to bless the CD image.
It's a command line tool called Bless,
which has an excellent man page,
so I suggest reading that.
And what that does is it sets a special
bit on the CD that lets OpenFlare know
that this is a CD that can be booted,
and this is the bootloader
that should be used.
So in this example,
we will bless the folder
that's the Courses folder,
and that's where
BootX installs its image.
We also specify a label is actually
the name that appears on open source.
It's a little image
that's pre-calculated.
When you do a partition,
if you set the label up, it's
"An easy to read name when you
hold down on your computer to
decide what you want to boot from."
The first step is to
generate the mkext cache.
The cache is basically
pre-computing all of
[Transcript missing]
may report a few missing dependencies
or some things of that nature.
This is a normal,
so one or two extensions of the
Don't worry too much.
a large of it, and then perhaps something
important is missing.
And generally what you'll want
is you'll have a similar set of
extensions in this folder as well
as what you're using to boot the...
I also want to create a
startup script by default,
these Darwin
[Transcript missing]
"What you want to do is have a
little basic commands and drop
[Transcript missing]
I assume that it does.
If it doesn't,
different instruction on that.
So here what we can do is we can
make a directory called which
lets script as an installer CD.
at CECD,
which go and execute that file startup.
And we have the opportunity,
which will put us into the .
And that's really all
I wanted to do today.
[Transcript missing]
For more information,
contact Jason Williams,
the CSI's IT manager.
[Transcript missing]